What is ownership?
- 
In rust, memory is managed through a system of ownership with a set of rules that the compiler checks at compile time.

### The stack and the heap
Both the stack and the heap are parts of memory that are available to your code to use at runtime, but they are structured in different ways.

The stack stores values in the orders it gets them and removed the value in the opposite order (lifo). Adding data is called pushing onto the stack, and removing data is called popping off the stack. All data stored on the stack must have known, fixed size. Data with an unknown size at compile time or a size that might change *must be stored on the heap instead*.

The heap is less organized. When you put data on the heap, you request a certain amount of space. The operating system finds an empty spot on the heap that is big enough, marks it as being in use, and return a *pointer*, which is the address of that location. This process is called *allocating on the heap* and is sometimes abbreviated as just *allocating*.

Pushing values onto the stack on not considered allocating. Because the pointer is a known, fixed size, you can store the pointer on the stack, but when you want the actual data, you must follow the pointer.

Pushing to the stack is faster than allocating on the heap, and accessing data in the heap is slower than access data on the stack.

Keeping track of this is what ownership addresses. Once understanding ownership, one rarely needs to think about the stack and the heap very often; but knowing that managing heap data is why ownership exists can help explain why it works in the way that it does.

### Ownership rules
1. Each value in Rust has a variable that's called its *owner*
2. There can only be one owner at a time
3. When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped

#### Variable scope

```rust
{                      // s is not valid here, it’s not yet declared
    let s = "hello";   // s is valid from this point forward

    // do stuff with s
}                      // this scope is now over, and s is no longer valid
```
- When `s` comes into scope, it is valid
- It remains value until it goes out of scope.

#### The string type
The types covered previously are simple, and are all stored on the stack and popped off the stack when their scope is over.
To look at data that is stored on the heap we need a data type that is more complex, e.g., the `String`.

The `String` type is not identical to string literals covered above. One difference is that `Strings` are mutable. Another is that not every string value can be known when we write our code: for example, what if we want to take user input and store it? The `String` type is allocated on the heap and as such is able to store an amount of text that is unknown to us at compile time.

You can create a `String` from a string literal like this:
```rust
let s = String::from("hello")
``` 

The double colon is basically the same as a classes `.` in python -- an operator that allows us to namespace this particular `from` function under the `String` type rather than using some sort of name like `string_from`.

The `String` type can be mutated:
```rust
let mut s = String::from("hello")
s.push_str(", world");
println!("{}", s);
```

The reason the `String` type *can* be mutated, and the string literal cannot has to do with how memory is handled.

### Memory and Allocation

In the case of a string literal, we know the contents when we write the code. This is why they're faster and more efficient.

With the `String` type, in order to support an unpredictable, mutable piece of text, we need to *allocated an amount of memory on the heap, **unkown** at compile time*.

This means

- The memory must be requested from the OS at runtime
- We need a way of returning this memory to the OS when we're done with our `String`

The first part is done when we call `String::from`. However, the second part, because Rust has no GC, is handled by freeing up memory once the variable that owns it goes out of scope.

When a variable goes out of scope, Rust calls a special function for us, called `drop`. Rust calls this automatically at the closing curly bracket.

In addition to calling drop, there's another native feature in Rust implemented to ensure that we don't run into *double free errors*. Instead of trying to copy the allocated memory when assigning one variable to another, Rust considers s1 to no longer be valid and, therefore, Rust doesn't need to free anything when s1 goes out of scope.

```rust
let s1 = String::from("hello");
let s2 = s1;  // s1 is dropped
 
println!("{}, world", s1);  // this will fail
```

Running the above code will lead to an error from using an invalidated reference:
```rust
error[E0382]: use of moved value: `s1`
 --> src/main.rs:5:28
  |
3 |     let s2 = s1;
  |         -- value moved here
4 |
5 |     println!("{}, world!", s1);
  |                            ^^ value used here after move
  |
  = note: move occurs because `s1` has type `std::string::String`, which does
  not implement the `Copy` trait
```

#### Ways variables interact: Clone

If we *do* want to deeply copy the heap data of a `String`, not just the stack data, we can use a more expensive method called `clone`.

```rust
let s1 = String::from("hello");
let s2 = s1.clone();

println!("s1 = {}, s2 = {}", s1, s2);
```

#### Stack-only data: Copy

While the string is `move`'d rather than *deeply copied*, this is not the case for immutable objects like integers.

```rust
let x = 5;
let y = x;

println!("x = {}, y = {}", x, y);
```

This example will work just fine, despite not calling the `clone` method. This is because integers have a known size at compile time, and are stored entirely on the stack. Copies are therefore quick to make; enough so that there's no reason to prevent `x` from being valid after we create the variable `y`.

#### Ownership and functions

The semantics for passing a value to a function are *similar to those for assigning a value to a variable*. Passing a variable to a function will move or copy, just as assignment does.

Example:

```rust
fn main() {
    let s = String::from("hello");  // s comes into scope

    takes_ownership(s);             // s's value moves into the function...
                                    // ... and so is no longer valid here

    let x = 5;                      // x comes into scope

    makes_copy(x);                  // x would move into the function,
                                    // but i32 is Copy, so it’s okay to still
                                    // use x afterward

} // Here, x goes out of scope, then s. But because s's value was moved, nothing
  // special happens.

fn takes_ownership(some_string: String) { // some_string comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_string);
} // Here, some_string goes out of scope and `drop` is called. The backing
  // memory is freed.

fn makes_copy(some_integer: i32) { // some_integer comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_integer);
} // Here, some_integer goes out of scope. Nothing special happens.
``` 

#### Return values and scope
Returning values can also transfer ownership:
```rust
fn main() {
    let s1 = gives_ownership();         // gives_ownership moves its return
                                        // value into s1

    let s2 = String::from("hello");     // s2 comes into scope

    let s3 = takes_and_gives_back(s2);  // s2 is moved into
                                        // takes_and_gives_back, which also
                                        // moves its return value into s3
} // Here, s3 goes out of scope and is dropped. s2 goes out of scope but was
  // moved, so nothing happens. s1 goes out of scope and is dropped.

fn gives_ownership() -> String {             // gives_ownership will move its
                                             // return value into the function
                                             // that calls it

    let some_string = String::from("hello"); // some_string comes into scope

    some_string                              // some_string is returned and
                                             // moves out to the calling
                                             // function
}

// takes_and_gives_back will take a String and return one
fn takes_and_gives_back(a_string: String) -> String { // a_string comes into
                                                      // scope

    a_string  // a_string is returned and moves out to the calling function
}
```

Taking ownership and then returning ownership with every function is a bit tedious. What if we want to let a function use a value but not take ownership?

This is solved using *references* which is covered in 4.2