Data Types
-
Rust is a statically typed language, which means the compiler *must know all variable types at compile time*. The compiler can usually infer what type we want, but it's not always possible. In these cases, type annotations are required for the code  to compile.

Scalar Types
-
Represents a single value. Scalar types include: 
- ints, 
- floats, 
- booleans, and 
- char (single character)

#### Integers
Integer types include:
- 8bit
- 16bit
- 32bit
- 64bit
- 128bit
- arch

- Each variant comes with a signed (i8) and an unsigned (u8) variant.

- Signed variants can hold `-(2^n-1)` to `2^(n-1)-1`, so for an `i8`, the range is -128 to +127.

- Unsigned variants can hold `2^n - 1`, so a `u8` can hold values between 0 and 255.

- The arch integer type depends on the operating system the program is running on - 64bit for x64 and 32bit for x86.

- You can write integer literals in the following forms
    - Decimal
    - Hex
    - Octal
    - Binary
    - Byte
    
<b> Integer overflow</b>

A `u8` given a value above its capacity will start again at 0 in production. For example, a value of 258 would become 2.
Relying on the built in overflow wrapping is considered an error.

#### Floats

Rust has two floating point number types: `f32` and `f64`, which are 32bits and 64bits in size. The default type is `f64`, because modern CPUs handle both with roughly the same speed, but the `f64` provides more precision.

#### Booleans

Booleans have two possible values: `true` and `false`. They are one byte in size.

#### Char

Chars are specified using single quotes rather than double quotes as for strings. A char is 4 bytes in size.

Compound Types
-
#### Tuples

- Once declared, tuples have a constant length.
- A tuple is declared as follows
    ```rust
  fn main() {
      let x: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
    }  
  ```
- To access a single value in a tuple, the tuple can be unpacked like this:
    ```rust
    fn main() {
      let x: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
      let (one, two, three) = x;
      println!("The value of the second element is: {}", two);
    }
    ```
    This type of unpacking is called `destructuring`
- The tuple can also be indexed by using a period (`.`)
    ```rust
    fn main() {
       let x: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
       let two = x.1;
       println!("The value of the second element is: {}", two);
    } 
    ```
  
#### Arrays

- All elements in an array needs to be the same type
- Arrays have a fixed length (unlike vectors)
- Type annotation for arrays can be performed using square brackets:
    ```rust
    let a: [i32; 4] = [1, 2, 3, 4];
    ```
- Similarly to the way type annotation is performed, it is possible to generate an array of identical values using the syntax `let a = [3; 5];`
- Array elements can be indexed the same way as in Python
- 